then Solomon spoke the Lord said he
would dwell in the dark cloud
I have surely built you an exalted house
and a place for you to dwell in forever
then the King turned around and blessed
the whole Assembly of Israel while all
the Assembly of Israel was standing and
he said blessed be the Lord God of
Israel who has fulfilled with his hands
what he spoke with his mouth to my
father David saying since the day that I
brought my people out of the land of
Egypt I have chosen no City from any
tribe of Israel in which to build a
house that my name might be there nor
did I choose any man to be a ruler over
my people Israel yet I have chosen
Jerusalem that my name may be there and
I have chosen David to be over my people
Israel now it was in the heart of my
father David to build a temple for the
name of the Lord God of Israel but the
Lord said to my father David whereas it
was in your heart to build a temple for
my name you did well in that it was in
your heart nevertheless you shall not
build the temple but your son who will
come from your body he shall build the
temple for my name so the Lord has
fulfilled his word which he spoke and I
have filled the position of my father
David and sits on the throne of Israel
as the Lord promised and I have built
the temple for the name of the Lord God
of Israel
there I have put the ark in which is the
Covenant of the Lord which he made with
the children of Israel then Solomon
stood before the altar of the Lord in
the presence of all the Assembly of
Israel and spread out his hands for
Solomon had made a bronze platform five
cubits long five cubits wide and three
cubits high and had set it in the midst
of the court and he stood on it melt
down on his knees before all the
Assembly of Israel and spread out his
hands toward heaven
Lord God of Israel there is no God in
heaven or on earth like you who keep
your covenant and mercy with your
servants who walk before you with all
their hearts you have kept what you
promised your servant David my father
you have both spoken with your mouth and
fulfilled it with your hand as it is
this day therefore Lord God of Israel
now keep what you promised your servant
David my father saying you shall not
fail to have a man sit before me on the
throne of Israel only if your sons take
heed to their way that they walk in my
law as you have walked before me and now
O Lord God of Israel let your word come
true which you have spoken to your
servant David but will God indeed dwell
with men on the earth behold heaven and
the heaven of heavens cannot contain you
how much less this temple which I have
built yet regard the prayer of your
servant and his supplication o Lord my
God and listen to the cry and the prayer
which your servant is praying before you
that your eyes may be open toward this
temple day and night toward the place
where you said you would put your name
that you may hear the prayer which your
servant makes toward this place and may
you hear the supplications of your
servant and of your people Israel when
they pray toward this place
here from heaven your dwelling place and
when you hear forgive if anyone sins
against his neighbor and is forced to
take an oath and comes and takes an oath
before your altar in this temple then
hear from heaven and act and judge your
service bringing retribution on the
wicked by bringing his way on his own
head and justifying the righteous by
giving him according to his
righteousness or if your people Israel
are defeated before an enemy because
they have sinned against you and
returned and confess your name and pray
and make supplication before you in this
temple then hear from heaven and forgive
the sin of your people Israel and bring
them back to the land which you gave to
them and their fathers when the heavens
are shut up and there is no rain because
they have sinned against you when they
pray toward this place and confess your
name and turn from their sin because you
have licked them then here in heaven and
forgive the sin of your servants your
people Israel that you may teach them
the good way in which they should walk
and send rain on your land which you
have given to your people as an
inheritance
when there is famine in the land
pestilence or blight or mildew locusts
or grasshoppers when their enemies
besieged them in the land of their
cities
whatever plague or whatever sickness
there is whatever prayer whatever
supplication is made by anyone or by all
your people Israel when each one knows
his own burden and his own grief and
spreads out his hands to this temple
then hear from heaven your dwelling
place and forgive and give to everyone
according to all his ways whose heart
you know for you alone know the hearts
of the sons of men but they may fear you
to walk in your ways as long as they
live in the land which you gave to our
fathers moreover concerning a foreigner
who is not of your people Israel but has
come from a far country for the sake of
your great name and your mighty hand and
your outstretched arm when they come and
pray in this temple then hear from
heaven your dwelling place and do
according to all for which the foreigner
calls to you that all peoples of the
earth may know your name and fear you as
to your people is
and that they may know that this temple
which I have built is called by your
name when your people go out to battle
against their enemies wherever you send
them and when they pray to you toward
this city which you have chosen and the
temple which I have built for your name
then hear from heaven their prayer and
their supplication and maintain their
cause when they sin against you for
there is no one who does not sin and you
become angry with them and deliver them
to the enemy
they take them captive to the land far
or near yet when they come to themselves
in the land where they were carried
captive and repent and make supplication
to you in the land of their captivity
saying we have sinned we have done wrong
and have committed wickedness and when
they return to you with all their heart
and with all their soul in the land of
their captivity where they have been
carried captive and pray toward their
land which you gave to their fathers the
city which you have chosen and toward
the temple which I have built for your
name then hear from heaven your dwelling
place their prayer and their
supplications and maintained their cause
and forgive your people who have sinned
against you now my god I pray that your
eyes be open and let your ears be
attentive to the prayer made in this
place now therefore arise O Lord God to
your resting place you and the arc of
your strength that your priests Oh Lord
God be clothed with salvation and let
your saints rejoice in goodness O Lord
God do not turn away the face of your
anointed remember the mercies of your
servant David
you